<frontmatter>
  title: Why SSGs? JAMstack.
</frontmatter>

<br>

### Why do we do SSR, Server Side Rendering?

In today's time and age, expectations for immediacy are strict. Videos must play instantly, browser applications must launch faster than their desktop counter‐ parts. Users have become increasingly mobile and increasingly impatient—we are all fed up with slow pages and we vote angrily against them with the back button. 

JAMstack: a powerful new approach for deploying fast, highly scalable sites and applications that don’t require traditional frontend infrastructure. 

Under this new approach, there isn’t a “server environment” at all, at least not in the traditional sense. Instead, HTML is prerendered into static files, sites are served from a global CDN, and tasks that
were once processed and managed server side are now performed via APIs and microservices.

### JAMstack

Read more about [Modern Web Development on the JAMstack](https://www.netlify.com/pdf/oreilly-modern-web-development-on-the-jamstack.pdf).

[JAMstack](https://jamstack.org) is a web development architecture pattern and solution stack. The acronym "JAM" stands for **JavaScript, API and Markup** (generated by a static site generator) and was coined by Matt Biilmann in 2015. The JAMstack brings together JavaScript, APIs, and markup, the three core components used to create sites that are both fast and highly dynamic.

The idea of combining the use of JavaScript, APIs and markup has existed since the beginnings of HTML5.


#### Mechanism

In JAMstack websites, the application logic typically resides on the client side (for example, an embedded e-commerce checkout service that interacts with pre-rendered static content), without being tightly coupled to a backend server. JAMstack sites are usually served with a Git-based or headless CMS.

**Here is what happens under the JAMstack workflow:**
1. The source for the site is a hosted repository that stores content and code together as editable files.
2. Whenever a change made, a build process is triggered that pre‐renders the site, creating final HTML from templates, content, and data.
3. The prepared, rendered assets are published globally on a CDN, putting them as close to end users as physically possible.

#### APIs to Process and Personalize

In the JAMstack, these personalized experiences are done using JavaScript to make API calls that send and receive data. Many of the APIs used are third-party services. Stripe, for example, is a popular service for processing payments. Algolia is a popular API for power‐
ing search.

